your feet are home to around 7 000 nerve
endings
they have to be this sensitive to keep
you balanced and not flip over
all those nerves constantly send
information to your brain
it uses more power to process it than on
the data from your entire torso
so when anything happens like extra
pressure change of temperature
or stepping on something sharp like
legos happens to your feet
it really hurts a lot lego bricks are
made of three
plastic polymer components it makes them
super resistant and strong
it would take a big horse or a piano to
compress a lego
when you step on it with all your weight
focused in one point on a solid surface
all of its super strength strikes back
at you it gets right into that huge
bundle of nerves
making things even worse things are
slightly better on a soft rug
but that doesn't solve the problem lego
felt so guilty for all the pain it
causes
they even created anti-lego slippers the
slippers with an open back fit both
right and left feet they have so much
padding on the insoles
you could step on a huge brick and feel
nothing
the slippers were a limited edition of
1500 units
random lego fans received them as a gift
from the company
stubbing your toe hurts so much because
you're exposing its tiny surface to the
force of a karate punch
it's packed with nerve endings that
aren't protected by much
fat padding the pain signal instantly
fires into your brain
this used to save people long before
antibiotics were invented
people were more careful about where
they stepped to avoid all that pain
to save them from lots of trouble
researchers are still not 100
sure why some people are more ticklish
than others
some think it might be genetic or has to
do with how sensitive your skin is
you're normally most ticklish in the
most vulnerable places
like the abdomen or throat it could be a
natural reflex to push away the intruder
most people become less ticklish as they
get older and when they're sad or angry
you see someone yawn and yawn back at
them for the same reasons
you imitate the words and actions of
others it's a primitive
unbeatable reflex of people and some
animals like chimpanzees and dogs
research has shown contagious yawning is
also a sign of
empathy and bonding the more you try to
stop yourself from yawning
the more you want to yawn you feel
so good after a sneeze because it's a
massive
tension release when that happens your
body releases the so-called feel-good
chemical
endorphin a lot of things from plucking
your eyebrows to working out and staying
in the bright sun
can make you sneeze you can't sneeze in
your sleep
because your sneezing nerves are also
sleeping
sneezing is important to your body
because it clears the nose of bacteria
and irritating stuff
and also keeps the mucous level in
balance sometimes
one sneeze isn't enough to do all that
or it would have to be too
powerful for you to handle that's why
sometimes you sneeze a few times
one after another to make sure it worked
you inherited goosebumps from your
animal ancestors
their hairs stand up when they're cold
or scared as the hair coat rises
it becomes thicker and keeps them warm
or makes them look bigger
you have way less hair than animals so
this feature is mostly useless
still you get goosebumps in the same
situations plus when you're emotional
the tiny muscles under your skin
contract making the hair stand up
and the areas around them protrude you
feel super tired after a long time in
the sun
because it makes you lose water faster
and your body temperature rises
your body and your heart have to work
harder to keep the temperature normal
and deliver all the vital fluids to your
organs
staying in the sun also takes down your
sleep hormone levels
when you get into a darker place it all
rises again
if you want to stay active longer after
a day on the beach
keep the lights bright indoors cuddling
hugs and holding hands makes you happier
because they release the feel-good
hormones they lift your mood
reduce stress and also improve your
immune system
even seeing images of other people
hugging can give you this effect
your skin gets wrinkled after five
minutes in the water
thanks to evolution a long time ago your
ancestors needed a way to grip in both
wet and dry conditions
so their skin adapted to look like a
tiny river drainage system
little streams on your skin unite into
large channels
that flow into a central river driving
water away from your fingers and toes
after long contact with water
you feel the instinct to stretch your
arms over your head
first thing in the morning to wake up
your muscles they lose tone overnight
and there's fluid moving along your back
when you stretch
the fluid goes back to where it belongs
it also helps your heart get back to its
normal work mode
after a night of pumping at slower
speeds cats and dogs
also do it for the same reasons you fall
asleep
faster in the colder room because it
signals to your body
it's time to sleep it also needs to lose
some heat when you get in bed
to conserve energy on maintaining your
temperature overnight
cooler air also helps you sleep all
night without waking up
and boosts your metabolism
you sometimes see stars when you stand
up from lying down or sitting
because of a sudden drop in blood
pressure this drop
misses a brain function for a brief
moment it can cause stars
flashing lights bands of light sparks or
colorful rings
you can also see them after you rubbed
your eyes or sneezed
when you speak you hear both the sound
coming from
outside and conducted through your own
vocal cords
the acoustics in your skull lowers the
voice and adds some bass tones
when you hear your voice in recording it
seems higher and different
because you lose these rich low
frequencies that's why most people
dislike the sound of their own voice
it's just nothing like you expected it
to be
you rarely like your own photos because
of the mere exposure effect
it says the more you see something the
more you like it
when you look at yourself in the mirror
the image is reversed
you aren't used to seeing the real image
and that's why you don't like
it you get hangry that's hungry when
angry
when your glucose levels drop you get it
from carbs proteins and fats in your
food
after some time passes your brain is
sending an sos signal
it can't function properly without
glucose
one more reason for your hanger is that
the same genes cause both hunger and
anger
they must be in balance to keep you full
and
happy your funny bone is a nerve that
runs from your neck
down to your hand it's well protected at
all points along the way
except for your elbow it's only covered
by skin and fat there
that's why when you hit your elbow it
hurts so much
you're hitting on the nerve and the pain
travels down the forearm and hand
into your fingers the joy you feel about
popping bubbly wrap has its roots in the
human evolution
a long long time ago people spent most
of their time
running from predators now it's all
about sitting
a lot of muscle tension builds up
because you hardly move
popping bubble wrap is one of the ways
to release that tension
it takes down stress levels and releases
feel-good chemicals
like other kinds of fidgeting it also
increases your attention span
and helps you remember what you learned
better your ear
is especially sensitive to sounds in a
high pitch range
it's built in such a way that they sound
even louder to you
that's why no one likes the sound of
chalk scraping on a chalkboard
the disgust is even stronger when you
know it's the sound of chalk
if someone tells you it's contemporary
music you perceive it as
bearable so it's also a thing of habit
your legs and feet go numb or fall
asleep after you keep them crossed
kneel sit on the feet or wear pants
socks or shoes that are too
tight that's normal and happens because
you put too much pressure on the nerves
and limit the blood flow standing up and
moving your legs
is the easiest cure you often have a
raspy voice in the morning when you
didn't get enough sleep
that's because your vocal cords didn't
get enough rest and are slightly swollen
it also happens when you sleep in a room
with dry air
when you eat right before bed your body
has to digest
food in your sleep stomach acid can
travel where it doesn't belong
and mess up your vocal cords too